Title: How much faster will the Electronic Form 4 be?
Text: When it comes to the government – and especially the ATF – one can never know for sure. Presently, we don’t know how much faster it will be. With that said, our research based on previous electronic Form 4 approvals and the current electronic Form 1 approvals suggests that once this process gets rolling, the total time needed to secure a transfer approval of a silencer should be reduced from the current 10 months (or more) wait time, to an approximate 150 days.

Title: How will the eForms process change for me, the customer?
Text: The biggest change for the customer will be to acquire your username and PIN from the ATF.  To create an eForms account, visiteforms.atf.govto start the process. You will then receive your username from the ATF (they pick it, you do not) and choose a password and PIN (you pick it, they do not).You will still provide us all of your personal information, your fingerprints and your photo. The biggest change is on Silencer Central’s side as we will now submit all of your information electronically through the eForms website AND your wait time will significantly decrease.

Title: How will the Electronic Form 4 speed up the process?
Text: The ATF’s new electronic version of theForm 4will greatly expedite the time required to make these transfers. When a transfer applicant or dealer enters the data electronically, the data will now be transmitted digitally. This cuts out the repetitive need for data entry and validation.Electronic Form 4 submissions should arrive at the ATF instantaneously, ready for the approval process. All of the time needed for data entry will be cut from the processing time.

Title: If I file as an individual, can I add a trust at a later date?
Text: Yes, you can add any silencer to a trust after you buy it by filing as an individual. Just keep in mind a few things. You will need to have legal help is setting up the new trust and adding in the silencer. There will likely be fees involved, but we can’t predict what those will be. There is also the issue of a tax stamp. If you transfer your silencer to a trust, you will need to buy a new tax stamp for it under the trust, according to the ATF.

Title: If I file as an individual, will I really get my silencer faster?
Text: The short answer is yes, you likely will – for now. Approval times for trusts are speeding up, and batch approvals are happening, too. We have been working with the ATF to help make the process for trusts faster, but individual approvals are currently faster.

Title: Is Silencer Central ready for eForms?
Text: Yes, all of our processes are ready and in-place. Not only have we been very involved with the ATF in beta testing for this NEW ATF eForm 4 process, but Silencer Central was also one of the primary companies invited to the final testing and feedback session for eForms.

Title: What does this mean for my current order?
Text: 1. If you have already started your application through the paper-process, then you will need to stay on that path. It is not recommended to withdraw paper applications. Remember: you’re already in line, so why jump out and go to the back of a different one?2. ATF has stated that any withdrawals of pending paper applications will result in a one-year delay.

Title: What if I get approved before my eZ-Pay Plan is complete?
Text: Our interest free eZ-Pay plan is extremely popular at Silencer Central. We will continue to allow you to “pay for it while you wait for it.”  If you are approved before your payment plan is complete, simply pay off your balance and have your silencer shipped directly to your door.

Title: What if my paperwork has already been submitted to the ATF?
Text: If you have already started your application through the paper-process, then you will need to stay on that path. It is not recommended to withdraw paper applications.

Title: What if you don’t want to file electronically?
Text: The paper version will still be an option. If for any reason you decide you would rather submit on paper, you certainly can, and Silencer Central can still do that on your behalf as we have been doing for years. The wait time will remain similar to what it is currently.

Title: What is ATF Form 4 eForm?
Text: ATF electronic Form 4’s will change the Form 4 from a paper process to an entirely digital process. Silencer Central will submit everything to the ATF digitally and the ATF will send their approval digitally. This will speed up the process of buying and waiting for approval.

Title: What is the new pin number process and how do I set it up?
Text: The most important change that the ATF has made is the usage and creation of a PIN that will help submit your form digitally. This process will be similar to the pins that have been used for years with ATF Forms 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.To create an eForms account, visiteforms.atf.govto start the process. You will then receive your username from the ATF (they pick it, you do not) and choose a password and PIN (you pick it, they do not).

Title: What makes paper-based Form 4 transfers so slow?
Text: There are two logical answers to this question. The first is the time it takes for paperwork to make it through the mail, and with postal reliability these days, there’s no telling when your paperwork may actually arrive. Thankfully, that’s now a thing of the past!The second reason is the amount of time devoted to data entry. When a silencer dealer or individual sends completed paperwork to the ATF to secure permission for a Form 4 transfer, employees at the ATF have to manually enter the data from the forms. (Yes, that’s right: the ATF takes your paper form and enters it into a computer instead of just having you enter it electronically in the first place.)As you can imagine, this is a time-consuming process. The data must be entered, and then checked, and this process is typically taking upwards of 9 months as of the time of writing.

Title: Which is better - Trust or Individual?
Text: The real answer to this is that it is entirely up to you. Only you can decide what works best for your circumstances. It’s pretty obvious that we tend to prefer trusts for the flexibility they provide. That’s why we offer trust setup as a free service. However, we also see the benefit to individual filing, as you will likely get your silencer faster.  Go through all the pros and cons to each and just know that we’re here to help you regardless of what you choose.

Title: Will ATF eForms reduce wait times?
Text: Yes, we anticipate a significant decrease in wait times once the ATF eForm 4 is launched.

Title: Will filing as a trust ever be as fast as filing as an individual?
Text: That is the goal that we and the ATF are working toward. We are always looking at how we can optimize our process, and we work with the ATF to see what can be done better. The ATF has told us that they are adding more staff and are working toward having the approval process be as close to equal as possible. But it isn’t there yet. We will keep everyone informed.

Title: With eForms, will Silencer Central still be able to ship directly to my door?
Text: The eForms process only enhances Silencer Central’s process. We will still have the ability to mail your silencer directly to you. The variances we have with the ATF have allowed us to run most of our processes digitally so the only piece that is changing is we will now submit your application electronically to the ATF.

Title: Which is better - Trust or Individual?
Text: The real answer to this is that it is entirely up to you. Only you can decide what works best for your circumstances. It’s pretty obvious that we tend to prefer trusts for the flexibility they provide. That’s why we offer trust setup as a free service. However, we also see the benefit to individual filing, as you will likely get your silencer faster.  Go through all the pros and cons to each and just know that we’re here to help you regardless of what you choose.

Title: Why Are Silencers (Suppressors) in Such High Demand?
Text: Until recently, most Americans thought silencers were illegal. There are many benefits: better hunting, no hearing protection, reduced recoil, better accuracy, and happy neighbors. This market segment is the fastest growing in the firearms industry; we have been in this market exclusively since 2005.

Title: What Are the Benefits of Owning a Silencer?
Text: There are countless benefits of owning a silencer, a few of which include:Better Experience– Game is less likely to spook while hunting.Reduces Recoil– Significantly reduces recoil when you shoot.Increased Accuracy– Because of recoil reduction.Less Noise– Means you won’t disrupt neighbors, family or pets.Great for Family– Added safety for even the youngest family members.

Title: How Do You Choose Which Silencers to Keep in Stock?
Text: Through our over 12 years of experience in the silencer marketplace, we’ve found customers have three main issues driving their purchasing decisions:Best sound reductionBest value for the price; andLightest weight for shooting convenienceDue to customer demand for these three types of silencers, we carry a large volume in each category. Of course, we’re also here to provide any other silencer you may want. As such, we can order any manufacturer’s silencer to ensure you have everything you need.When you’re browsing your options, please note that a higher price doesn’t automatically mean that a silencer will be quieter. Large manufacturers commonly compromise value to mass produce in large volumes and turn larger profits (meaning you’ll pay more for less quality). As always, you can contact our staff between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. during the week and after hours via email to assist with the purchasing process if you aren’t sure which silencer is right for you. Please tap into our experience and expertise.

Title: How Do You Test Your Silencers?
Text: At Silencer Central, we sell only the best, so we test with only the best. Currently, we test each of our silencers with a Bruel & Kjaer 2209 military grade sound testing meter that meets all military standards for silencer testing.As the only silencer dealer in the country with this testing meter and one of only a few manufacturers with it, we can guarantee the quality of our products due to our rigorous testing process. We don’t carry any silencers that don’t meet our strict criteria and as such, you can purchase any of our products with confidence.

Title: Are Silencers as Quiet as on the Movies?
Text: The only silencer as quiet in real life as it appears in movies is the.22 rimfire. All other calibers will sound like a .22 short to a .22 long when suppressed. However, every silencer we sell is hearing safe, meaning you won’t need additional hearing protection. See thesilencer sound chartby caliber.

Title: Am I "grandfathered" in after I purchase my first suppressor?
Text: No, when you purchase your next suppressor you will still need to complete the ATF application process, pay the $200 tax stamp, and wait for approval. However, Silencer Central keeps your fingerprints and passport-style photo on file in a secured location making the preparation of your application on future purchases fast and simple.

Title: If I file as an individual, can I add a trust at a later date?
Text: Yes, you can add any silencer to a trust after you buy it by filing as an individual. Just keep in mind a few things. You will need to have legal help is setting up the new trust and adding in the silencer. There will likely be fees involved, but we can’t predict what those will be. There is also the issue of a tax stamp. If you transfer your silencer to a trust, you will need to buy a new tax stamp for it under the trust, according to the ATF.

Title: Which is better - Trust or Individual?
Text: The real answer to this is that it is entirely up to you. Only you can decide what works best for your circumstances. It’s pretty obvious that we tend to prefer trusts for the flexibility they provide. That’s why we offer trust setup as a free service. However, we also see the benefit to individual filing, as you will likely get your silencer faster.  Go through all the pros and cons to each and just know that we’re here to help you regardless of what you choose.

Title: Will filing as a trust ever be as fast as filing as an individual?
Text: That is the goal that we and the ATF are working toward. We are always looking at how we can optimize our process, and we work with the ATF to see what can be done better. The ATF has told us that they are adding more staff and are working toward having the approval process be as close to equal as possible. But it isn’t there yet. We will keep everyone informed.

Title: What is a NFA Gun Trust?
Text: Silencer Central provides aFREE NFA Trustwith the purchase of each silencer.NFA trustsallow sharing ownership of silencers with others.Trusts ensure the next generation inherits your suppressor.We have done over 15,000 gun trust silencer transfers and counting!We keep on file for future purchases.The gun trust is 20 plus pages and allows you to add unlimited co-trustees to also use your silencers or other NFA items. We offer this Gun Trust FREE if youpurchase a silencerfrom Silencer Central. We also help ensure you completed the gun trust correctly so ATF does not reject. We have completed over 15,000 silencer to gun trust transfers and counting!

Title: What Game Can I Hunt With a Silencer in my state?
Text: You can hunt all game animals with a silencer in the the following states:Alabama,Arizona,Colorado,Florida,Georgia,Iowa,Kansas,Michigan,Minnesota,Montana,Nebraska,North Carolina,North Dakota,South Dakota,Tennessee,Texas,WisconsinandWyoming.SeeSuppressor Lawsfor other states.

Title: Can I use one silencer for multiple firearms?
Text: Yes. Buy one silencer and you can use it on all guns of smaller caliber. For example, if you bought theBanish 30 Multi-Caliber Suppressor, it will work with all of your rifle calibers from .17 to .30 caliber magnums

Title: Who Can You Sell to?
Text: Currently, we’re licensed to sell directly to residents in all 42 states where silencers are legal, includingAlabama,Alaska,Arizona,Arkansas,Colorado,Connecticut,Florida,Georgia,Idaho,Indiana,Iowa,Kansas,Kentucky,Louisiana,Maine,Maryland,Michigan,Minnesota,Mississippi,Missouri,Montana,Nebraska,New Hampshire,New Mexico,Nevada,North Carolina,North Dakota,Ohio,Oklahoma,Oregon,Pennsylvania,South Carolina,South Dakota,Tennessee,Texas,Utah,Vermont,Virginia,Washington,West Virginia,WisconsinandWyoming.For most customers, we’re able to mail the approved silencer and all forms directly to you, meaning you’ll never have to visit a physical location. This enables us to sell to customers across the country, no matter their zip code!

Title: Can I Use a .30 Caliber Silencer on All Sub Calibers?
Text: Yes! Doing so is very common with a stacked baffle design, like theBANISH 30.Having one silencer for all rifle applications doesn’t often impact performance because.308 silencersare longer with additional baffles. Due to its light weight, titanium is one of the most popular materials for application on all sub calibers. Please note that not all.308 silencerswork well on a .223. Stack baffle design is typically best for dual application because there is a greater surface area to remove heat from the blast.In recent tests, we found that our own exclusive silencer, theBANISH 30, was quieter on a .223 than a.223 silencerwas. Additionally, we have tested some silencers that are not hearing safe on all sub-calibers. As such, it’s best to ask our staff if you have a specific question about certain models.

Title: How Do I Get My Silencer After It Has Been Approved?
Text: Once we have received your approval from the ATF, we will send you an email and a text message informing you of the next steps to have your silencer(s) shipped to your front door:You will need to complete and sign the ATF form 4473. This is a federally required form that allows us to transfer ownership of your silencer(s) to you. We will first send you a link via email to complete the form electronically, then you will receive a second email to review and sign the document.Next, we are required to send a notification via certified mail to the chief law enforcement officer in your jurisdiction, letting them know we will be shipping your silencer(s) to you. Once we receive confirmation this notification has been received, the chief law enforcement officer has seven days to respond. We cannot ship until after the seven days has passed.You will receive two shipping notifications and two tracking numbers. The first tracking number tracks your shipment from us to our licensed location in your state and the second tracking number will go live as soon as your shipment is on its way to your front door. Please note: Adult signature is required at the time of delivery.

Title: How do I take a passport-style photo?
Text: Your ATF Form 4 application must include a passport style photo. Here are some tips to take the best picture.The image will be cropped to a 2″x2″ square size.The photo should be taken in front of a solid white background.Photos must be taken in full face view. The top of your head and your shoulders need to be in full view (there should be white space above your head).Remove any head coverings that would obscure your hair or hairline, including sunglasses, hats, toupees.Submit your photo via email tophotos@silencercentral.comand include your First, Middle, Last name.

Title: If I file as an individual, will I really get my silencer faster?
Text: The short answer is yes, you likely will – for now. Approval times for trusts are speeding up, and batch approvals are happening, too. We have been working with the ATF to help make the process for trusts faster, but individual approvals are currently faster.

Title: Which is better - Trust or Individual?
Text: The real answer to this is that it is entirely up to you. Only you can decide what works best for your circumstances. It’s pretty obvious that we tend to prefer trusts for the flexibility they provide. That’s why we offer trust setup as a free service. However, we also see the benefit to individual filing, as you will likely get your silencer faster.  Go through all the pros and cons to each and just know that we’re here to help you regardless of what you choose.

Title: What’s the Silencer Buying Process Like?
Text: Buying a silencer can be an intimidating task. Dealing with the government and their seemingly constantly changing laws is enough to discourage even the most savvy shooting enthusiast. Silencer Central makes it simple to own a silencer. We do all the work for you and make it as easy as 1-2-3.Select your silencer– We offer the best brands and can help you choose the silencer that’s right for you.We do the paperwork– We will manage the entire buying process for you, let you pay for your silencer in installments and even set up a free NFA Gun Trust that allows others to use your silencer.Direct-to-your-door shipping– Once approved, we will ship you new silencer directly to your door.

Title: Can You Help Me Purchase My Silencer Through a NFA Gun Trust?
Text: At Silencer Central (formerly Dakota Silencer), we offer aGun Trust freefor all our customers. In fact, 99.5% of our customers choose to purchase their Class 3 firearms through a Gun Trust.Through a Gun Trust, you can create a “joint ownership” scenario in which you can legally share your silencer. You can also select who will inherit. Because we have a full-time staff to assist with your paperwork, we ensure the ATF won’t reject your paperwork. To discuss further benefits of a Gun Trust, contact a member of our team at888-781-8778.

Title: Do I Need to Have a Class 3 License to Purchase a Silencer?
Text: No! The best way to think of a silencer purchase is as a “title” transfer between our company and your Gun Trust or to you directly. While ATF must approve this transfer (which we will assist with), you do not physically need your own license to make a purchase.

Title: Is There a Federal Tax Involved in Purchasing a Silencer?
Text: There is a$200 Tax Stamprequired per silencer. This fee is tax deductible and is a one-time fee. The best way to conceptualize this fee is as a title transfer tax.

Title: Can I Order Any Silencer From Any Manufacturer From You?
Text: Absolutely! While we stock only the most extensively tested and approved silencers, we can easily acquire a silencer from a manufacturer we don’t typically carry on our site.

Title: Which is better - Trust or Individual?
Text: The real answer to this is that it is entirely up to you. Only you can decide what works best for your circumstances. It’s pretty obvious that we tend to prefer trusts for the flexibility they provide. That’s why we offer trust setup as a free service. However, we also see the benefit to individual filing, as you will likely get your silencer faster.  Go through all the pros and cons to each and just know that we’re here to help you regardless of what you choose.

Title: How Long Does It Take for the ATF to Approve My Purchase?
Text: One of the most significant benefits of working with Silencer Central is that we manage your entire buying process and submit your paperwork quickly so the ATF can begin the approval process. Of course, the time for ATF approval following our processing may fluctuate depending upon demand placed on the ATF. VisitNFA-Statusto see how fast approvals are arriving.

Title: What if my item is out of stock?
Text: While we make every effort to fulfill your entire order, on rare occasion we may need to cancel one or more item(s). If we are unable to fulfill your entire order due to merchandise out of stock, you will receive a cancellation e-mail and will not be charged for unshipped item(s).

Title: How Do I Get My Silencer After It Has Been Approved?
Text: Once we have received your approval from the ATF, we will send you an email and a text message informing you of the next steps to have your silencer(s) shipped to your front door:You will need to complete and sign the ATF form 4473. This is a federally required form that allows us to transfer ownership of your silencer(s) to you. We will first send you a link via email to complete the form electronically, then you will receive a second email to review and sign the document.Next, we are required to send a notification via certified mail to the chief law enforcement officer in your jurisdiction, letting them know we will be shipping your silencer(s) to you. Once we receive confirmation this notification has been received, the chief law enforcement officer has seven days to respond. We cannot ship until after the seven days has passed.You will receive two shipping notifications and two tracking numbers. The first tracking number tracks your shipment from us to our licensed location in your state and the second tracking number will go live as soon as your shipment is on its way to your front door. Please note: Adult signature is required at the time of delivery.

Title: How long does it take to ship my silencer
Text: Your silencer is shipped to your front door as soon as all federal requirements have been met. Once your order leaves our licensed location in your state, it is delivered to you within 3-5 business days. Please note: adult signature is required at delivery.

Title: How do you mail my silencer?
Text: Learn how we mail your silencer here:Silencer Shipping: How We Mail Your Silencer

Title: Do you ship to military addresses?
Text: Absolutely! When entering your billing address be sure to select to ship to a different address. Silencer Central only ships to the contiguous United States. There may be additional charges for shipping to Alaska. Please contact us if you have any questions.

Title: Do you require a signature upon delivery?
Text: Silencer Central orders are shipped from each of our licensed locations throughout the United States.  An adult signature is requiredat the time of delivery.

Title: Do you ship internationally?
Text: At this time, Silencer Central only ships to the contiguous United States. There may be additional charges for shipping to Hawaii andAlaska. Please contact us if you have any questions.

Title: What payments do you accept?
Text: Currently, we acceptSilencer Central Gift Cards, Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover payment options. Gift cards that display the Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover logos are also accepted.All prices and amounts are in U.S. dollars.

Title: Do you charge sales tax in my state?
Text: Current law allows us to collect sales or other applicable state taxes, based on the order’s “ship to” address. Silencer Central follows the guidelines for each state as they pertain to your order. Most states assess sales tax on shipping and handling charges. All applicable taxes will be clearly displayed on the invoice that accompanies your order. If you have questions about the taxes on your order, please call us at888.781.8778.Note: State sales and other tax rates are subject to change at any time.

Title: How do you purchase and use gift cards?
Text: If you are interested in purchasing a Silencer Central gift card, clickhere. Gift cards are available online in the following denominations: $100, $250, $500, $750, and $1,000. Gift cards never expire.

Title: What if I get approved before my eZ-Pay Plan is complete?
Text: Our interest free eZ-Pay plan is extremely popular at Silencer Central. We will continue to allow you to “pay for it while you wait for it.”  If you are approved before your payment plan is complete, simply pay off your balance and have your silencer shipped directly to your door.

Title: When do you file the ATF transfer paperwork?
Text: The application process will begin immediately after you complete your purchase. Once we have your fingerprints, passport-style photo, and completed application, we will submit it to the ATF.

Title: Does an eZ-Pay Plan purchase qualify for a free Silencer Central Gun Trust?
Text: Yes, all silencer purchases qualify for a free NFA Gun Trust generated by Silencer Central, individualized and specific to your state.

Title: Are there any fees to use eZ-Pay Plan?
Text: No, we offer four interest-free, eZ-Pay payments. No fees ever.Other companies are charging over 15% in fees for this type of payment plan. We buy in large volumes directly from the manufacturer, which eliminates the middleman, allowing us to provide this payment plan to you at no additional cost.

Title: Are all silencers eligible for purchase using eZ-Pay Plan?
Text: Yes! You will even find a couple SBR’s on our website available with the eZ-Pay option. Our website will always note which products are eligible.

Title: Can anyone use the eZ-Pay Plan?
Text: The eZ-Pay Plan was designed for customers in our licensed states (Alabama,Alaska,Arizona,Arkansas,Colorado,Connecticut,Florida,Georgia,Idaho,Indiana,Iowa,Kansas,Kentucky,Louisiana,Maine,Maryland,Michigan,Minnesota,Mississippi,Missouri,Montana,Nebraska,Nevada,New Hampshire,New Mexico,North Carolina,North Dakota,Ohio,Oklahoma,Oregon,Pennsylvania,South Carolina,South Dakota,Tennessee,Texas,Utah,Vermont,Virginia,Washington,West Virginia,WisconsinandWyoming.) who are filing a Form 4 transfer, which typically takes 12 months for ATF approval.All customers are welcome to use the eZ-Pay Plan, but please keep in mind that the we do not ship eZ-Pay Plan orders until the order is paid in full. Form 3 transfers (dealer to dealer) are significantly shorter than in-state Form 4 transfers, so your order must be paid in full prior to shipment to your local dealer. Most Non- FFL residents who consider using eZ-Pay Plan elect to pay in full upon Form 3 approval to their local dealer or shortly thereafter.

Title: What are my payments?
Text: After your initial down payment you will make three equal payments over the next 90 days (one payment due each month) to pay off your eZ-Pay Plan balance. You will receive an email 5 days prior to your next payment, reminding you that you have a payment coming out.

Title: How do I select an eZ-Pay Plan?
Text: If you used a credit card for the initial down payment, our system will set up recurring payments automatically. You will receive an invoice via email five days before your payment is due. Recurring payments will be made by credit card; however, you can choose to make a payment by cash or check at least 14 days prior to your monthly recurring payment date.

Title: Can I pay off my balance prior to 90 days?
Text: Yes.  You can pay your entire balance at any time during the 90-day period without incurring any penalty.

Title: What if my eZ-Pay Plan installment payment is not paid in full at the end of any of the 30-day increments?
Text: You will have three equal payments due on the same day each month.  If you fail to make any of your monthly payments, your order will be cancelled and all products will be returned to stock. If eZ-Pay Plan products are returned to stock for delinquency of payment, all money you have paid towards your eZ-Pay Plan balance is non-refundable.

Title: Can I cancel an eZ-Pay Plan order?
Text: If for any reason you change your mind after purchasing and wish to cancel your order, you will receive your full cost of purchase back, including your tax stamp, less a 25 percent processing fee which will be issued in the form of a credit to be applied to a future purchase within one calendar year of cancellation. Please note: If you cancel prior to paying your eZ-Pay Plan in full, refunds from cancellations are based on full cost of purchase–not by percentage of what has been paid to date. Cancellation must be within 30 days of purchase and before any ATF paperwork has been submitted for the item. Unfortunately, once application forms have been submitted to the ATF, we are unable to cancel your order. Purchase of all sale items is final and no cancellation or refund can be issued. See more details about ourguarantee, warranty, and cancellation policy.

Title: Can I transfer the payments I have made through eZ-Pay Plan to someone else?
Text: No.  Since your paperwork is specific to you, your trust, or your local dealer, once submitted to the ATF, no changes can be made.  Once your purchase has been paid in full and you have received approval from the ATF, you can transfer your silencer to another person, however they will incur an additional $200 fee for another tax stamp and will be subject to current ATF wait times.

Title: What additional gunsmithing options are offered?
Text: Cut and Recrown – $69.99Recrown Only- $39.99Move Or Install Front Sight – $44.99Check Thread/Alignment – $24.99All additional gunsmithing services can be added to yourBarrel Threadingorder

Title: What is the 360 Mailing Program?
Text: We will send you a pre-packaged box (4″ x 8″ x 48″) containing two soft cases with a prepaid return shipping label. You will remove all accessories from your rifle and package your barrel(s) in the provided soft cases,fill out the order formand secure it in the soft case, then use the prepaid label to send it off to Silencer Central.

Title: How do I get my barrel to Silencer Central?
Text: Purchase the 360 Mailing Program with your orderDrop off your barrels at our in-store location*Please note, items must be unloaded, ensure there is no round in the chamber and that the magazine or tube is empty before shipping or dropping off with us.*Silencer Central can not accept firearms that do not have a visible serial number unless documentation is included. If we receive a firearm with no visible serial number & lacking documentation, the item will be turned over to the ATF.* Silencer Central Uses 4″x8″x48″ boxes, please ensure your riffle/barrel will fit into the container for return shipping. Silencer Central will not accept odd-shaped cases such as guitar cases or oversized gun cases.

Title: How do I get my barrel back after it is done being threaded by Silencer Central?
Text: Items dropped off at our Sioux Falls, SD location may be picked up in the store or shipped to you for $19.99.If your barrel was shipped with a 360 Mailing Program, orders will be shipped to you when the work is completed.

Title: Where is Silencer Central headquartered?
Text: We are headquartered in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.Read about our story.

Title: How many locations does Silencer Central have?
Text: Silencer Central is headquartered in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. We have satellite locations and are licensed to sell silencers in all 42 states where silencers are legal, which allow us to deliver your new silencer directly to front your door. States include:Alabama,Alaska,Arizona,Arkansas,Colorado,Connecticut,Florida,Georgia,Idaho,Indiana,Iowa,Kansas,Kentucky,Louisiana,Maine,Maryland,Michigan,Minnesota,Mississippi,Missouri,Montana,Nebraska,New Hampshire,New Mexico,Nevada,North Carolina,North Dakota,Ohio,Oklahoma,Oregon,Pennsylvania,South Carolina,South Dakota,Tennessee,Texas,Utah,Vermont,Virginia,Washington,West Virginia,WisconsinandWyoming.

Title: What makes Silencer Central different from other companies that sell Silencers online?
Text: Ten reasons to buy your silencer from Silencer Central!Select your silencer– We were the first silencer reseller and have been making silencer buying super simple since 2005!.Silencers are all we do– We are not a gun shop that sells silencers on the side like virtually everyone else.Talk to an expert– We have a full-time staff dedicated to making sure your silencer buying experience goes without a hitch. And, if there is ever an issue, you’ll always be able to talk directly to a silencer buying expert.Direct-to-your-door shipping– We have satellite locations in all 42 states where silencers are legal which allow us to deliver your new silencer directly to your door. States include:AL,AK,AZ,AR,CO,CT,FL,GA,IA,ID,KS,KY,LA,MD,ME,MI,MN,MO,MS,MT,ND,NE,NH,NM,NV,NC,OH,OK,OR,PA,SC,SD,TN,TX,UT,VA,VT,WA,WI,WV, &WY.Free NFA Gun Trust– We offer afree NFA Gun Trust (a $250 value)to all customers which essentially establishes a joint ownership scenario in which you can legally share your silencer with designated others (as well as determining who will inherit your silencer). This lets others use your silencer.Pay just 25% down– OureZ-Pay Interest-Free Layaway Planallows you to “pay for it while you wait for it”. Submitting your down payment of 25% allows us to file your transfer paperwork with the ATF while you pay off your balance over three months. And we do not charge you any interest!Barrel threading– In the event you need you rifle barrel threaded to accept your new silencer, we will take care of that as well through ourThreading Central.We know the game– We are the only silencer reseller on the ATF advisory board which means we not only know the rules and the ropes but we influence them as well.Security– We know you are entrusting us with sensitive information and we are set up to protect it better than any gun shop. We also keep your trust and fingerprint records on file which allows you to streamline the process if you ever choose to buy another silencer.Shopping protection– Finally, buy from Silencer Central and you automatically get the Norton Shopping Guarantee which gives you identity theft protection, dispute resolution, and a lowest price guarantee. All for free.

Title: Was Silencer Central previously known by another name?
Text: Yes, we used to be known as Dakota Silencer! On August 1, 2019, Dakota Silencer rebranded as Silencer Central. This name change reflects growth outside of our midwest roots and the expansion to conduct business in all42 silencer legal states.

Title: Who Can You Sell to?
Text: Currently, we’re licensed to sell directly to residents in all 42 states where silencers are legal, includingAlabama,Alaska,Arizona,Arkansas,Colorado,Connecticut,Florida,Georgia,Idaho,Indiana,Iowa,Kansas,Kentucky,Louisiana,Maine,Maryland,Michigan,Minnesota,Mississippi,Missouri,Montana,Nebraska,New Hampshire,New Mexico,Nevada,North Carolina,North Dakota,Ohio,Oklahoma,Oregon,Pennsylvania,South Carolina,South Dakota,Tennessee,Texas,Utah,Vermont,Virginia,Washington,West Virginia,WisconsinandWyoming.For most customers, we’re able to mail the approved silencer and all forms directly to you, meaning you’ll never have to visit a physical location. This enables us to sell to customers across the country, no matter their zip code!

Title: Are rifle silencers illegal?
Text: No, rifle silencers are actually legal in 42 U.S. states. Only 9 states (California, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, Hawaii and Washington D.C). ban individual ownership of silencers or suppressors.Lucky for you, Silencer Central is here to make the process easy! We are licensed in all 42 states where rifle silencers are legal. If you want to learn more about regulations in your state, check out ourstate-by-state guide on silencer ownership.And if you happen to betraveling with your suppressor, the good news is that, unlike other NFA items, you don’t have to notify the ATF when you travel or relocate.

Title: Can you put a silencer on a rifle?
Text: Absolutely. In fact, rifles are by far the most common type of firearm on which to mount a silencer. Like rifles, silencers are common among hunters. Your hunting rifle should definitely have a silencer, because first and foremost, they reduce noise pollution. Meaning you’re not going to scare off every critter in a 10 mile radius.But silencers also reduce recoil, muzzle blast, and the risk of hearing damage. They also are known to increase accuracy, helping you make that once-in-a-lifetime shot. Some rifles can also be integrally suppressed to reduce noise even more. They also have important safety benefits, like allowing you to be more aware of your surroundings. Without having to wear hearing protection, you can listen for sounds of other predators or hunters.

Title: What is the quietest rifle suppressor?
Text: Well the jury’s out on this one, because there is so much that affects asuppressor’s dB testingat any given time. A gunshot’s volume, measured in decibels, or “dB”, depends on the weight, caliber, and speed of the bullet, the length of the barrel, not to mention how fast the gunpowder is burning. A gunshot can also be impacted by something as simple as temperature or humidity.Price is not necessarily indicative of quality. But material is. The best suppressors are made out of 100% titanium. Titanium is both lightweight and quicker at cooling hot muzzle gas than steel or aluminum.If we had to choose a quietest silencer to recommend, we’d suggest theBANISH 30multi-caliber suppressor, because it has the highest sound reduction in comparison to its competitors of similar weight and material.

Title: What is the best rifle suppressor?
Text: What is the best rifle suppressor? This is up for debate, but we’re partial to the BANISH line of silencers. BANISH suppressors are the original multi-caliber suppressors, making them incredibly versatile and able to fit more than just one gun. OurBANISH suppressorswere designed to be most user friendly silencers on the market, without sacrificing quality.When buying a suppressor, you should make sure to think about what caliber you need, what material it’s made out of, how it will impact your performance (ie. point-of-impact shift, velocity, recoil), whether you need a threaded barrel, if you’re interested in subsonic shooting, getting the paperwork done with the ATF, and price.You should also consider how and why you’ll be using it. Are you hoping to reduce noise pollution? Increase the accuracy of your shots? Trying to reduce the risk of hearing loss? All these factors will contribute to the type of silencer that works best for you.

Title: How do rifle suppressors work?
Text: When you fire a round, burning gas builds up pressure behind the bullet and thrusts it down your bore. When the bullet leaves, a burst of host gas exists behind it, releasing a loud noise.In comes a silencer. A silencer slows down the gas by redirecting it through a series of baffles before it can escape the silencer. This allows any unburnt powder to finish burning off, which reduces muzzle flash. It also gives the gas more time to slow down and cool, so that when it does escape the silencer, it’s moving slower and under less pressure, which means it’s also quieter.If you want to learn more about how silencers work and get into the nitty gritty, check out our article,“An Inside Look at How Suppressors Work”.

Title: How do I choose the right rifle silencer?
Text: Choosing the right silencer can be complicated. There are a ton of different factors that come into play, including ones you may not have thought about. These include things like material, weight, length, caliber compatibility, price, and whether or not it’s threaded.You might also want to consider how you are using it. Is your silencer going on a rifle or a .22? Is it a hunting rifle, or one you keep for protection? What are your goals? To reduce the risk of hearing loss? Have less noise pollution? Increase your shot’s accuracy? Reduce recoil? All these factors make a difference.That’s why the Silencer Central team is here to help. Our sales staff will walk you through the process from start to finish, from choosing the right silencer, to filling out the paperwork, and getting it in your hands.

Title: Are pistol silencers legal?
Text: Yes, pistol silencers are legal. Silencers, while regulated, actually make guns safer for everyone. They reduce the risk of hearing loss, allowing gun owners to operate without earplugs, which in turn, helps them be much more aware of their surroundings.So yes. With the exception of 8 states (California, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, Hawaii), and one federal district, Washington D.C, owning suppressors is legal in the United States of America. If you want to know more about the specific regulations on silencers in your state, read ourstate-by-state guide on silencer ownership.And if the process seems a little daunting, don’t worry. Silencer Central is here to help you navigate the buying process, wait time, and paperwork. We’re licensed in all 42 states where pistol silencers are legal.

Title: Do pistol silencers work?
Text: Yes, absolutely. Silencers offer many of the same benefits to pistol shooters as they do to rifle and shotgun shooters. Even thebest Pistol silencerstend to get a bad rap because unlike rifles or shotguns, pistols are often bought to conceal or be discreet.However, a suppressed pistol is a great training aid. Suppressors reduce recoil and noise flinch. A silencer makes a gun safer and more manageable, with less risk of hearing loss, and allows you to take off your hearing protection and be aware of the space around you. A silencer also reduces noise pollution, recoil, and muzzle flash, and increases accuracy. In some cases, it might even increase the velocity of the bullet.

Title: How loud is a silenced pistol?
Text: How loud a suppressed pistol is depends greatly upon the caliber being fired and the suppressor being used. Unlike in the movies, a silencer won’t give you a completely soundless bullet whispering through the air. The word “suppressor” is really more accurate because these products suppress the sound of a gun rather than silence it.That said, the level of sound suppression you typically get from a silencer is between 20 – 36 dB. Which is enough to significantly reduce the risk of hearing damage. Essentially, suppressors make guns just quiet enough to reduce most or all of the downsides associated with extremely loud gunshots.See our article abouthow we test our silencersfor more information.

Title: Is 45 ACP quieter than 9mm?
Text: A .45 ACP and a 9mm blast will likely sound very similar. That said, a suppressed .45 ACP will likely be quieter than asuppressed 9mm.But this is actually a very complicated question to answer because it depends on more than ammunition. It will also depend on the gun, barrel length, silencer being used, and more uncontrollable factors like the weather and humidity.Technically, because standard .45 ACP ammo is subsonic, it is more effectively suppressed than 9mm ammo. 9mm is actually what can be called “supersonic”, which means that it breaks the sound barrier. Supersonic bullets are generally louder because a suppressor cannot quiet the sonic “crack,” so a suppressor will probably do more for a 45 ACP than a 9mm.That being said, it really will depend on more factors than just ammo, and the difference we’re talking about here is small. In general, it’s best to use hearing protection when shooting a gun. But both a silenced .45 ACP and silenced 9mm will be below 140 dB, the OSHA threshold for hearing damage.

Title: What is the quietest 9mm suppressor?
Text: In our opinion, the best pistol silencer is aBANISH 45, since its interchangeable piston mounting system makes it so versatile. Its lightweight titanium body and great sound reduction make it easily a great option for a 9mm.We also like the Illusion 9. Illusion 9’s unique design allows shooters to see easier and effectively use the standard iron sights on the pistol. The downside is, of course, that it is only available for a 9mm, so is less versatile.For a full breakdown, check out our 2020 round-up ofbest pistol silencers.

Title: What pistols can have silencers?
Text: Most standard pistols can be used with silencers, but we recommend talking with our team to know for sure if your pistol is ideal for being used with a silencer. We’re available to help Mon – Fri 8:30 am – 5 pm, Sat 12-3 pm (CT), and can be reached by phone at 888-781-8778 or by email at customerservice@silencercentral.com.

Title: Are shotgun silencers illegal?
Text: No, shotgun silencers are absolutely not illegal. With the exception of a few homebrew, DIY contraptions, all silencers are legal in 42 of our great 50 states. Only California, Illinois, New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, Hawaii, and Washington D.C. ban individual silencer ownership.We made it our business to be everywhere silencers are legal, so we’re licensed in each of those 42 states. If you want to learn more about specific regulations in your state, feel free to check out ourstate-by-state guide on silencer ownership,or give us a call at 888-781-8778. We’d be happy to talk you through the legality, paperwork, and decision process.

Title: Can you put a silencer on a 12 gauge shotgun?
Text: You sure can, with the one and only commercially available shotgun suppressor, the SilencerCo Salvo 12.

Title: Can you put a silencer on a shotgun?
Text: Until recently, the answer to this question was “no.” However, to the benefit of shotgun owners around America, that has finally changed.These days, you can absolutely silence a shotgun. The folks over at SilencerCo have made it possible with theSalvo 12.The Salvo 12 is a 6.73-12.52″ aluminum beauty that can handle nearly all shotguns and ammunition on the market today including pump actions, semi-autos, and inertia driven models. It puts the sound down to a safe 136.8 dB, well below the 140 dB recommended by OSHA.A shotgun silencer like the Salvo 12 is perfect for turkey hunting out near our headquarters in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, or if that’s not your speed, sporting waterfowl or clay pigeons, or yes, home defense.

Title: How many decibels does a silencer reduce on a shotgun?
Text: The Salvo 12 is the only shotgun silencer on the market, and at its full-length configuration, it brings a shotgun’s noise level down to 136.8 dB. Which, according to OSHA, is considered safe without additional hearing protection.

Title: Why are shotgun silencers so expensive?
Text: There is only one commercially available shotgun silencer on the market, the Salvo 12. There is an incredible amount of engineering and design that has gone into building the world’s first widely-available shotgun silencer. The quality of work inherent to this product is reflected in the price.Naturally, though, if and when more shotgun silencers eventually do make it onto the commercial market, we will likely see a wider range of prices. But until then, you have a great choice with the Salvo 12, and although the price isn’t flexible, you can at the very least trust that it is a one-of-a-kind piece of craftsmanship.

